people
share their lives with other people out
of strength
not
weakness
and when people tell me
that they're shy
i say no you're not you're ashamed of
yourself having ambition
involves failure
you know it involves being willing to
fail
again and again and again
not having ambition
involves shame
and shyness
you're not shy
you're ashamed of yourself
you're ashamed of who you are you're
ashamed of the extent to which you have
squandered your own potential
it's easy
to visualize your ambitions
in terms of things
in terms of palpable things
it's not just easy to be honest you i
think that's a pretty reliable sign of
stupidity
if you ever meet someone and talk to
them
and you say oh well what's what's your
ambition i mean however it comes up in
conversation naturally presumably it's
not like a survey and you're just asking
you meet someone and they say oh every
day they get up and they visualize a red
sports car that's made in italy you know
this this is their ambition their
ambition is to drive
this red sports car and you know
we see these kinds of cars on the street
here every so often depending on where
you live it's probably because of the
climate here there are a lot of people
with expensive cars here because there's
not too much snow and whatever
and i i always make make jokes about it
they're not even really great jokes but
i always kind of joke around with most
oh this this is the meaning of my life i
can't be happy until i'm driving a
bright red jaguar like this [ __ ] you
know like oh yeah this is what i'm this
is what i'm looking for this is what i'm
motivated by
you know so it's not just that it's easy
i think it's a pretty reliable sign of
stupidity
that you have
aspirations and ambitions defined in
terms of
simple palpable things there's another
kind of aspiration or ambition that's
maybe more impalpable but it's something
like writing a book it's something like
making youtube videos it's something
maybe it's an art form maybe it's not
creative maybe it's a status or social
position you want to attain in life i
mean it's a step up it's a step up from
wanting to own a red sports car so you
have some idea you want to be a doctor
you want to be a dentist you want to be
a pilot you want to be a chief petty
officer in the military there's some
rank there's some status of some role
you want to play i think that kind of
ambition and exploration almost
inevitably leads to tragedy and
self-hatred and certainly
my professors uh here at the university
of victoria my professors before the
university of toronto most people i knew
with phds whether in england or france
or in china i knew a lot of people phds
in in asia
most of them were trapped in the
nightmare of having lived out their
dream and discovered that it wasn't
worth living wasn't worth dreaming
either you know they found out what it
really meant to be a university
professor and have a phd and they were
they were horrified by it and discussed
it with themselves and a great deal of
self-loathing and disappointment as a
result okay that's another kind of
ambition and aspiration but you know
what the most powerful and most
effective form of ambition and
aspiration is to have of all its people
all right you know what swords
can't accomplish a whole hell of a lot
having a hundred men
who are willing and able and motivated
to make use of those swords changes the
course of history
right you can own a lot of pencils and
pens i mean i do i don't collect them or
anything i've always got a lot of them
around you know you notice that about me
if you come to my apartment you know
it's good partly because i've studied so
many languages you know what having a
hundred pens
it's not gonna change the world it's not
gonna accomplish much if you have a
hundred authors
if you know a hundred writers who are
motivated positively somehow to make the
world a better place there's something
they want to change there's something
they have in common with you where you
want to you want to work together if you
have a salon of talented people that can
change the world when your ambitions
are not based on things
and they're not based on a rank well you
know a job title or
certification or something when your
ambitions are based on people
it's not just that they're more powerful
they're also more malleable they can
change
right
if you have 100 people
who are motivated to work together to
get you elected in government anyway
sorry it doesn't have to be i don't care
if i knew 100 people here i'd be totally
happy to be some of the brains behind
someone else's campaign i could
ghostwrite their speeches you know i
don't that doesn't have to be my face in
the front i'm not an egomaniac about
that i really don't care i can
contribute in other ways to other
political causes and
or whether it's a political cause as
blatant as participating in elections or
it is something more like humanitarian
work it's political and changing the
world but not not in an electoral
uh way you know
if you have 100 people
who are motivated and eager and willing
and organized
to help you participate in an election
and let's just say it's an election you
cannot win you cannot win but you can
get up there on the podium and you can
eloquently speak for whatever the issue
is that unites these guys maybe your
anti-war maybe your pro-war maybe your
anti-torture maybe your
you know anti-vivisection or you i don't
know
you want to save the cows you want to
save the whales you want to save
something whatever it is that draws you
people together if you have those people
and they don't just know you
they know one another right there are
bonds of mutual trust and mutual respect
there aren't it's not like a whole bunch
of points united in the middle just one
point you have a hundred points that are
all connected in multiple ways to one
another all of them have been out to
picnics with one another maybe not all
at the same time you know they're all
they're all connected one way or another
okay
once you've done that
you could turn around and you can
mobilize those people to instead
take on a humanitarian project you can
make a film you can mobilize those
people to make change in the world in so
many different ways to do something
creative to do something politically
significant right
once you have people
you have the potential to do anything
when you have a job title
you have the potential to do one thing
and when you have an object like an
expensive car you have the potential to
do nothing
when you think back to
your own time in university
how many of those people that you knew
in university
do you wish
you still knew today
you could still cooperate with today you
could still
collaborate with today uh
whether that's you want to make a film
together whether it's you want to open a
bakery together so it's another good
example something has some long-term
commitment to it you want to organize to
do something politically or creatively
or in terms of business you know you
want to do something how many of those
people that you knew in university do
you wish you you still
knew today
now i have a further question
like if you actually got out a pencil
and paper and wrote down their names
if you look them up on
facebook
you just managed to find the name you
searched
how many of them do you think you'd
still want to meet up with just after
looking at their facebook group just
seeing what they've been doing in the
last
five or ten years
talent
is scarce
and as we get older
it gets scarcer when i made the youtube
videos talking about how everyone who
lives in this apartment building hates
me
and i did that for a reason i was trying
to show a broader point
and it's it's hard to show the
significance of an absence in your life
what i'm trying to indicate you right
now with this video is there are a
hundred people out there who should
still be in my life and they're not
all right
there were a hundred people i knew when
i was doing humanitarian work in vien
chen
the capital city of laos and none of
them are with me today there were 100
people i knew in bangkok thailand there
were 100 people i knew in chiang mai
various faces including the vegans the
vegan activists i knew a channel like
people who spoke english sort of there
were 100 people in
kunming
china you know there weren't 100 people
but maybe there were 10 people in de
hong china it was a small town
you know there were 100 people when i
lived in cambridge england and when i
took the bus back and forth between
cambridge and oxford you know so we
could count more people i knew people at
cambridge i knew people at oxford i knew
people at the university of london right
any of those people could still be a
positive part of my life today and
they're not there were a hundred people
i knew in france sure sure including
some vegan activists by the way at every
phase of my life at every stage of my
life there were these people i reached
out to and that i who i shared my life
with and so that i was warm and
encouraging and and positive to right
and each and every one of them for
various specific reasons you know they
did not give that warmth and positivity
back i'm trying to really draw attention
to the significance of that absence
there are a hundred people missing there
and in a lot of ways that's much more
than 100 people that are missing i said
before
there's this absence in my life i'm
trying to draw attention to right
there are a hundred people who should be
here with me now should be sharing my
life
and they're not
i think the single most important reason
is that those people are ashamed of
themselves
and they don't feel
that they have a life worth sharing
now i'm a warm person and i'm a caring
person uh you might not always get that
impression of me on youtube but you see
the way i actually am with people i know
and care about in real life i am
but that kindness
comes from a kind of strength
when i meet people and talk to people
whether they're a complete stranger or
there's someone a known for 10 years or
20 years right
i have so much to share
like there's so much in my life i feel
is worth talking about and meaningful
and that i want to share with you
you know like i'm sorry but just just
talk about like a normal kind of crappy
conversation with a friend of yours if
you have a friend and they're
complaining about breaking up with a
girlfriend or they're complaining about
a conflict at work with their boss or
something you know i'm someone who can
be caring and engaged even on something
that's shallow because i really feel i
have a lot to share from my own life and
i want to share that with you and so on
and so forth and of course obviously i
am even more willing to share if we're
going to talk about politics or history
or matters of real substance it's not
because i'm needy you know what i mean
it's not because i'm nosy i'm not i
really don't ask questions about the
people in my life i really let them tell
me whatever it is they want to tell me
and sometimes they get pissed off me for
that
because i'm not asking i'm not asking
the kind of intrusive questions that
they expect their friends to ask and
that i guess their other friends
ask that's come up in a few months a few
more relationships but i go into it with
this kind of context that i have a lot
to share i'm not ashamed of who i am i'm
not ashamed of what i'm sharing all
right
i gotta tell you
the people i've known in life
including the people who got phds
especially the people who got phds they
don't want to talk to me and they don't
want to hang out with me because they're
ashamed of themselves
because they've accomplished so little
in the last five years of any substance
and what they have accomplished they're
not proud of
they feel stupid when they're around me
they feel like they've been wasting
their time when they're around me they
feel like they haven't been living up to
any of their own hype like the last time
they talked to me they told me they were
doing x y and z and then here they are
five years later and then
you know like you know
and
just be honest i have had people tell me
that like do i've had people not
indirectly i've had people directly tell
me
that whenever they talk to me or
remember one guy said whenever he hears
someone else talk about me uh behind my
back saying about what i've been up to
he said he felt ashamed of himself he
said he felt he was living in slow
motion that i was out like living in
fast forward i was doing all these
things and you know he uh here he was
years going by and and not accomplishing
anything and nothing changing and not
not taking any risks and not living up
to his own hype now that was mostly
intellectually not living up to their
own height and by the way i'm not saying
the state you may know people right now
who say they're going to write a novel
and years go by and where's the novel at
they even say they're going to read a
book
you guys come by and haven't read the
book let alone you know writing a book
whatever their projects are or whatever
their aspirations are some people
accomplish nothing because they spend
their time
uh
on reddit reading gospel in other
people's lives they spend their time
watching reruns of the simpsons tv show
of the family guy watching situation
comedies watching movies like it's not
always video games you know what i mean
video games are kind of a convenient way
to get this a lot of people spend years
of their life doing absolutely nothing
in particular just self-indulgent
miscellaneous waste of time people
share their lives with other people out
of strength
not
weakness
and when people tell me that they're shy
i say no you're not
you're ashamed of yourself
we have this full stereotype
that someone who is gregarious
and self-confident is a psychopath
i see this being said even about
salesmen that like a good salesman as a
psychopath or a sociopath because he's
willing to walk up to a stranger and say
hey i'm gonna sell you a pair of car
tires that's better than the car tires
you have no he's not no he's not he's
positively motivated
he's motivated because he actually
believes he has a good product to sell
you he actually believes these car tires
are going to save you money in the long
run or something and he actually wants
to make the sale he actually do when
you're positively motivated to do
something you're not shy you know who's
shy people who are ashamed of themselves
people who feel
like the product they're selling isn't
really any good anyway and you shouldn't
really be doing this job
oh
now you're starting to now you're
starting to get shy okay now it's not
that direct it's not that easy it's not
that simple
but there is a connection between the
fact that you are playing video games
for 20 hours a week and the fact that
you're shy that you don't want to share
your life with other people or
that you're only willing to share your
life with other people when you already
know in advance
that they're wasting their time in the
same way that they're not going to judge
you
that they're not going to make you feel
bad about yourself that when you meet up
with them even if you just meet up for
coffee with no other no ambitions to run
in an election no plans to make a film
no plans to to to save the world then
when you meet up with them for coffee
and say so you know what did you do this
week where you won't feel embarrassed
and you won't feel bad of yourself at
all when you say oh well
didn't really do anything you know
the new version of that video game came
out
so i played that a lot
how do you think my friends feel when
they're in that situation and they talk
to me that way
whatever the project is whatever the
aspiration is
including i've known people who were
aspiring youtubers whether it's that
you're talking to someone who's a friend
of yours about what did you do this last
week what did you do that what are you
going to do next weekend or you're
looking back at the last two years of
your life last five years of your life
you're looking forward to the next five
years of your life you're like hey bro
you know where's it at i make people
feel bad about themselves precisely
because
i feel good about myself
okay you think i have any regrets about
what i did during coronavirus
do you think i feel like i wasted the
last 10 months of my life not a goddamn
bit of it i am so grateful i was stuck
in this apartment reading books for 10
months reading reading books
and writing books and sharing my life
with you
you people
on the internet
through youtube you know are you are you
kidding me
the value of what i did stuck in this
apartment for the last 10 months
compared to what i did in university
like you know actually taking classes in
universities it's no no comparison it's
been absolutely wonderful it's been
tremendously meaningful it's been
tremendously rewarding
you know who gets real shy around me
you know who's shy
people who took the last 10 months and
they
you know they played the legend of zelda
on nintendo switch for 200 hours and
then maybe they played animal crossing
for 400 hours you know
having ambition
involves failure
you know
it involves being willing to fail
again and again and again
not having ambition
involves shame
and shyness
it's a totally
self-serving delusion to think that
self-confident gregarious warm people
who go out and share their lives with
others
are
egomaniacs
or psychopaths or sociopaths or trying
to manipulate you this is the shy people
of the world trying to justify their own
shyness trying to claim that human
nature
is always shy unless there's some
ulterior motive unless this person is a
con artist unless this person is a
salesman unless this person is a cult
leader this is the dominance of the shy
in the 21st century okay
you're not shy
you're ashamed of yourself you're
ashamed of who you are you're ashamed of
the extent to which you have squandered
your own potential okay
those of us who are out here
willing and able and trying to share our
lives with others we do it out of
strength
not weakness
and there are so few people
who are strong enough
to reciprocate that warmth and just
share their own life in return even if
their life has you know
struggles and disappointments and
tragedies and setbacks and failures even
if you have to fail 10 times before
every one
project that succeeds there's still a
difference between whether you fail
with other people
or if you fail alone
if you share your sorrow if you share
your suffering with others or if you're
in a state of sorrow and suffering alone
it still matters
everything worth doing
everything worth doing involves
cooperation with other people even
learning a language you can't even learn
chinese
alone
talent
is scarce
you can be strong
you can stop being ashamed of your own
life
you can stop being shy you can get ready
to share your life with other people to
collaborate and work with 10 other
people or 100 other people you can even
make that your conscious goal right
the problem is you can't be strong for
anyone else
you can only be strong
for yourself
and then you get to see
you get to see just how alone
you are
because your strength makes other people
aware
of their weakness
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice
yes